User story describing a day of Shamanic

Morning, first check in - at basecamp - push notifications that came in through the night are checked. Different arrangements of other players' games are loaded and available for perusal / tagging for eventual exploration.

The players who have made it to the player's chosen sites are announced - possibilities to start watching their progress, accepted, deferred or denied. The overall structure of both 1) the maps people have shared, 2) the locations they've tagged, 3) the powers availabe through those maps and tags, 4) the upcoming goals and world-specific events which can be played against - all this structure is available at different levels of detail.

The player makes a few decisions - someone new to follow, some new place to explore, a new world event to be alerted about - and gets on with her day..

The player leaves basecamp.

The second (and subsequent) check-in, outside basecamp. This is a mobile-specific information glean - the game sees the device is off battery power, and out of the perimeter of basecamp, and begins recording location data. It compares the locations being visited (their coordinates, tags and properties) against the goals and other maps available to the player. These data will eventually become visible to the player as she reenters zones marked "ashrams" or resting places. They're places where game data is made available on the mobile device.

The next check-in, at an ashram she has previously visited. Call it "work".

The player is greeted with updates about other events that have happened since the morning's initial check-in. Other players have moved, may be at other ashrams or at basecamp (this information may not be available unless the players have opted in to share it... letting people know through public networks when you are or aren't at home is still dicey).. They have made moves in the game's world and those moves can here be responded to, but the results may not be available until the return to basecamp. Things done in the quest aren't necessarily made explicit until reflection allows one to see their deeper meaning..

The player moves from the ashram to another location, an unknown and unexplored area. Maybe she has an errand to run on her lunch break. This bundle of locations, when it's uploaded, is new to her profile (determined by making ever-expanding circumferences of her mapped travels) and is a place where Random Encounters (with system-generated locations and events) can take place. She can also discover tagged locations and intersections between other players' maps and therefore their power / influence. The events, however, won't happen concurrently unless she declares another ashram somewhere. That will also take some power and effort on her (and the game's!) part.

The player comes back to her ashram. The game updates with the things she found and saw in-game. She can determine to interact with them then, or wait until she returns to basecamp. The differences between these choices should have some in-game ramification. Constantly checking/updating the game isn't going to result in better gameplay, ideally.

The player leaves the ashram - it's been a while since she was back at basecamp and the game has a lot of new information for her. Her final travels home yield something unexpected - she has crossed into the perimeter of a transitory event tagged by another player, a scene where information was uploaded (it could be some turkeys spotted on the side of the road, a possibly missing dog, a tree the leaves of which have started turning...). The affected radius of the event was large enough so it'll show up on her game. (Here's an issue - this highly centralizes the game's collaborative aspects. only these events that are local will be seen). This is, possibly, a setting she has chosen which allows real-life events to coincide with in-game events (available once enough people in the same physical proximity are playing). Maybe it's only available at a certain density of player.

Last check-in of the day. Player is back at basecamp, free time on her hands. She can now take careful stock of all the events that have occurred in-game and identify which to interact with, which powers she has depleted and which amplified due to her travels. She can use the powers she has available to construct other delights (or traps) for her fellow players, place them somewhere in her territory (or the similar features at the other players' territories), trigger them due to certain in-world events or transitory events, etc.. The happenings of the other players have also done their own work on her, however, and may require her to do certain things. Say she has had an especially vicious player deface part of her basecamp temple, something which if she were to gather the source of her power (maybe it's hilltops or bluffs with oaks atop them) she would have plenty of resources to respond to, but it's been a long time and a long distance yet to cover to get to her power spot. She needs to make an important decision:

Does she risk rupturing her game experience by radically altering her power structure and choosing another, closer, source of energy? Or does she make a trip out to where those oak-lined bluffs are and gather more energy to respond to the vicissitudes of Shamanic?

The work week will drag on. The errands will be there. The lunch breaks and runs to the grocery store still exist. But underneath, there is an energy nourishing her. The world knows her heart. The wind scatters acorn seeds and her heart expands.
